.TH "lmscan" "6" "0.4" "AGWA, Greywhind, Archaemic" "Games"
.SH "NAME"
.LP 
legesmotus \- A team\-based, networked, 2D shooter set in zero\-gravity
.SH "SYNTAX"
.LP 
lmscan [-h] [\-f \fIformat\fP] [\-l] [\-m \fIaddress\fP] [-U] [\-o \fIfilename\fP]
.br 

If none of -h, -l or -m are specified, they are all implied.
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.LP 
Scans for running servers for the game Leges Motus.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.LP 
.TP 
\fB\-h\fR
Scan localhost.
.TP 
\fB\-f\fR <\fIformat\fP>\fR
Outputs the results of the scan in one of the following formats:
.RS
.IP \[bu]
readable
.br
An easily human-readable format. This is the default.
.IP \[bu]
json
.br
Use JavaScript Object Notation (JSON) to output the results.
.RE
.TP 
\fB\-l\fR
Scan the local network.
.TP 
\fB\-m\fR [\fIaddress\fP]\fR
Scan the metaserver. If \fIaddress\fP is not specified, the default metaserver is used.
.TP 
\fB\-U\fR
Do not check to see if there is an upgrade available.
.TP 
\fB\-o\fR \fIfilename\fP\fR
Output to a file instead of stdout.
.TP 
\fB\-?\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Output help information and exit.
.TP 
\fB\-\-version\fR
Output version information and exit.
.SH "AUTHORS"
.LP 
Andrew Ayer <agwadude@users.sourceforge.net>
.br 
Nathan Partlan <greywhind@users.sourceforge.net>
.br 
Jeffrey Pfau <archaemic@users.sourceforge.net>
.br 
.SH "COPYRIGHT"
.LP 
Copyright 2009-2010 Andrew Ayer, Nathan Partlan, Jeffrey Pfau
.LP 
Leges Motus is free and open source software.  You may redistribute it and/or
modify it under the terms of version 2, or (at your option) version 3, of the
GNU General Public License (GPL), as published by the Free Software Foundation.
.LP 
Leges Motus is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A
PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the full text of the GNU General Public License for
further detail.
.LP 
For a full copy of the GNU General Public License, please see the COPYING file
in the root of the source code tree.  You may also retrieve a copy from
<\fBhttp://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl\-2.0.txt\fR>, or request a copy by writing to the
Free Software Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA
02111\-1307  USA
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.LP 
lmserver(6), lmscan(6)
